0238 Keyboard Enhancements Documentation Updates (#396)
smartdevicelink/sdl_app_library_guides: docs/Displaying a User Interface/Popup Keyboards/index.md

    func customKeyboardConfiguration() -> SDLKeyboardProperties {
        <#Use an alternate keyboard configuration. The keypressMode, limitedCharacterSet, and autoCompleteText will be overridden by the screen manager#>
    }

    func keyboardDidUpdateInputMask(_ isEnabled: Bool) {
        if isEnabled {
            <#The user turned on masking the input#>
        } else {
            <#The user turned off masking the input#>
        }
    }
}
```
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]

> ### Implementing the Keyboard Listeners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Implementing the Keyboard Listener
```

    public void onKeyboardDidSendEvent(KeyboardEvent event, String currentInputText) {
        // This is sent upon every event, such as keypresses, cancellations, and aborting
    }

    @Override

>     public void onKeyboardInputMaskHasChanged(KeyboardEvent event) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    public void onKeyboardDidUpdateInputMask(KeyboardEvent event) {
```

        switch (event) {
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_ENABLED:
                // The user enabled input key masking
                break;
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_DISABLED:
                // The user disabled input key masking
                break;
            default:
                break;
        }
    }
};
```
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]

> ### Configuring the Keyboard Properties

Reviewer: You didn't add anything to describe custom keys (add an image), the numeric layout (add an image), describing what "mask input characters" is, or about how to check keyboard layout capabilities.

We should probably add considerably more detail to this section about each potential keyboard configuration option.

Author: Agree. I can add more details.

Author: @joeljfischer I updated the PR to add more details as suggested.

> You can change the default global keyboard properties such as language, layout, and whether or not you want the input to be masked, by sending a `SetGlobalProperties` request. If you are using the screen manager, you can change the global keyboard properties by calling `setKeyboardConfiguration()` with the new `KeyboardProperties` that you would like to set. For example, to set the keyboard layout to `NUMERIC` and make the input masked, you can set the properties as the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change default keyboard properties such as the language, layout, or whether you want the input to be masked, by updating @![iOS]`sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration()!@. For example, to set the keyboard layout to a US numeric keyboard that allows input masking, you can set the properties as the following: 
```

!@

@![iOS]
##### Objective-C
```objc

> // todo add code to set keyboard properties 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
self.sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration = [[SDLKeyboardProperties alloc] initWithLanguage:SDLLanguageEnUs keyboardLayout:SDLKeyboardLayoutNumeric keypressMode:nil limitedCharacterList:nil autoCompleteList:nil maskInputCharacters:SDLKeyboardEventInputKeyMaskEnabled customKeys:nil];
```

```

##### Swift
```swift

> // todo add code to set keyboard properties 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration = SDLKeyboardProperties(language: .enUs, keyboardLayout: .numeric, keypressMode: nil, limitedCharacterList: nil, autoCompleteList: nil, maskInputCharacters: .enableInputKeyMask, customKeys: nil)
```

```
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setLanguage(Language.EN_US)
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.NUMERIC)
        .setMaskInputCharacters(KeyboardInputMask.ENABLE_INPUT_KEY_MASK);

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

> @![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```

!!! NOTE

> If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one present keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to the `presentKeyboard()` that was discussed in the aforementioned `Presenting a Keyboard` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to the `presentKeyboard()` that was discussed in the `Presenting a Keyboard` section.
```

> If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one present keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to the `presentKeyboard()` that was discussed in the aforementioned `Presenting a Keyboard` section !!!

Reviewer 2: Extra `!!!` was removed
```suggestion
If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one present keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to the `presentKeyboard()` that was discussed in the aforementioned `Presenting a Keyboard` section
```

!!!
!@

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

@![iOS]
!!! NOTE
If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead return a `SDLKeyboardProperties` in the `SDLKeyboardDelegate.customKeyboardConfiguration` method.
!!!
!@

```

    public void onKeyboardDidSendEvent(KeyboardEvent event, String currentInputText) {
        // This is sent upon every event, such as keypresses, cancellations, and aborting
    }

    @Override
    public void onKeyboardDidUpdateInputMask(KeyboardEvent event) {
        switch (event) {
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_ENABLED:
                // The user enabled input key masking
                break;
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_DISABLED:
                // The user disabled input key masking
                break;
            default:
                break;
        }
    }
};
```
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
### Configuring the Keyboard Properties

> You can change default keyboard properties by updating !@@![iOS]`sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration`!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]`sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration()`!@@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]. For example, you can set the keyboard layout to a `NUMERIC` keyboard and allow the user to mask the input characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change default keyboard properties by updating !@@![iOS]`sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration`!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]`sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration()`!@@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]. 

#### Keyboard Layout (RPC 7.1+)
You can modify the keyboard layout by changing the keyboard configuration's `keyboardLayout`. For example, you can set a `NUMERIC` keyboard. It will default to `QWERTY` if not otherwise set.
```

![Numeric Keyboard](assets/keyboard_numeric_masked.png)
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
To do that, you can set keyboard properties as the following 
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.NUMERIC)
        .setMaskInputCharacters(KeyboardInputMask.ENABLE_INPUT_KEY_MASK);

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 

> !@

Reviewer: Change this to only be about changing the layout. Then do a new section for masking input.

> @![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
> Each keyboard layout has a number of keys that can be customized to more serve the app needs. For example, you can set two of the customizable keys in `QWERTY` layout to be "!" and "?"
> ![Custom Keys](assets/keyboard_querty_custom_keys.png)
> !@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
#### Custom Keys (RPC 7.1+)
Each keyboard layout has a number of keys that can be customized to your app's needs. For example, you could set two of the customizable keys in `QWERTY` layout to be "!" and "?" as seen in the image below. The available number and location of these custom keys is determined by the connected head unit.

![Custom Keys](assets/keyboard_querty_custom_keys.png)
!@
```

Reviewer: Please then also add subsections for setting a `language`, `limitedCharacterList`, and `autoCompleteList`

> 
> @![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
> To do that, you can set keyboard properties as the following:
> !@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.QWERTY)
        .setCustomKeys(Arrays.asList("!", "?"));

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

> @![android, javaSE, javaEE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Single-Use Keyboard Configuration
@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```

!!! NOTE

> If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to the `presentKeyboard()` that was discussed in the `Presenting a Keyboard` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change the keyboard configuration for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to `presentKeyboard()` which was discussed in the `Presenting a Keyboard` section.
```

!!!
!@

@![iOS]
!!! NOTE
If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead return a `SDLKeyboardProperties` in the `SDLKeyboardDelegate.customKeyboardConfiguration` method.
!!!
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
### Checking Keyboard Capabilities (RPC v7.1+)

> Each head unit can support different set of keyboard layouts and each layout can support different number of custom keys. Also, some head unit may not support masking input. If you want to know what keyboard features are supported on the connected head unit, you can check the `KeyboardCapabilities`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each head unit can support different set of keyboard layouts and each layout can support different number of custom keys. Also, some head unit may not support masking input. If you want to know which keyboard features are supported on the connected head unit, you can check the `KeyboardCapabilities`:
```

!@
@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java

> sdlManager.getSystemCapabilityManager().addOnSystemCapabilityListener(SystemCapabilityType.DISPLAYS, new OnSystemCapabilityListener() {

Reviewer: Note, this would probably be better as simply getting the default window capability because it's highly unlikely that these properties will change and therefore it doesn't need to be retrieved every time the window capability changes.

Author: Makes sense. Will update the code to get the capability instead of adding a listener

    @Override
    public void onCapabilityRetrieved(Object capability) {
        List<DisplayCapability> capabilities = SystemCapabilityManager.convertToList(capability, DisplayCapability.class);
        if (capabilities != null || !capabilities.isEmpty()) {
            DisplayCapability display = capabilities.get(0);
            for (WindowCapability windowCapability : display.getWindowCapabilities()) {
                int currentWindowID = windowCapability.getWindowID() != null ? windowCapability.getWindowID() : PredefinedWindows.DEFAULT_WINDOW.getValue();
                if (currentWindowID == PredefinedWindows.DEFAULT_WINDOW.getValue()) {
                    WindowCapability defaultMainWindowCapability = windowCapability;
                    KeyboardCapabilities keyboardCapabilities = windowCapability.getKeyboardCapabilities();

>                     // Check the supported keyboard features
>                     List<KeyboardLayoutCapability> keyboardLayouts = keyboardCapabilities.getSupportedKeyboards(); // List of layouts and number of custom keys supported by each layout
>                     boolean maskInputSupported = keyboardCapabilities.getMaskInputCharactersSupported(); // Boolean represents whether masking is supported or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    // List of layouts and number of custom keys supported by each layout
                    List<KeyboardLayoutCapability> keyboardLayouts = keyboardCapabilities.getSupportedKeyboards();

                    // Boolean represents whether masking is supported or not
                    boolean maskInputSupported = keyboardCapabilities.getMaskInputCharactersSupported();
```

                }
            }
        }
    }

    @Override
    public void onError(String info) {
        // An error occurred while trying to retrieve the capability 
    }
});
```
!@

> @![iOS]
> @todo add iOS implementation 
> !@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@![iOS]
@todo add iOS implementation 
!@
```

    public void onKeyboardDidSendEvent(KeyboardEvent event, String currentInputText) {
        // This is sent upon every event, such as keypresses, cancellations, and aborting
    }

    @Override
    public void onKeyboardDidUpdateInputMask(KeyboardEvent event) {
        switch (event) {
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_ENABLED:
                // The user enabled input key masking
                break;
            case INPUT_KEY_MASK_DISABLED:
                // The user disabled input key masking
                break;
            default:
                break;
        }
    }
};
```
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]

> ### Configuring the Keyboard Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring Keyboard Properties
```

> You can change default keyboard properties by updating !@@![iOS]`sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration`!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]`sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration()`!@@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE].!@ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change default keyboard properties by updating !@@![iOS]`sdlManager.screenManager.keyboardConfiguration`!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]`sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration()`!@@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE].!@

If you want to change the keyboard configuration for only one keyboard session and keep the default keyboard configuration unchanged, you can @![iOS]implement the `customKeyboardConfiguration` delegate method and pass back the single-use `KeyboardProperties` for that given keyboard presentation!@@![android, javaSE, javaEE]pass a single-use `KeyboardProperties` to `presentKeyboard()`!@.
```

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
#### Keyboard Language
You can modify the keyboard language by changing the keyboard configuration's `language`. For example, you can set an `EN_US` keyboard. It will default to `EN_US` if not otherwise set.
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setLanguage(Language.EN_US);

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
#### Limited Character List
You can modify the keyboard to enable only some characters by changing the keyboard configuration's `limitedCharacterList`. For example, you can enable only "a", "b" , and "c" on the keyboard. All other characters will be greyed out (disabled).
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setLimitedCharacterList(Arrays.asList("a", "b", "c"));

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]

> #### Auto Complete List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Autocomplete List
```

You can modify the keyboard to allow an app to pre-populate the text field with a list of suggested or completed entries as the user types by changing the keyboard configuration's `autoCompleteList`. For example, you can pre-populate "test1", "test2", and "test3". 
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setAutoCompleteList(Arrays.asList("test1", "test2", "test3"));

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]

> #### Keyboard Layout (RPC 7.1+)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Keyboard Layout
```

> You can modify the keyboard layout by changing the keyboard configuration's `keyboardLayout`. For example, you can set a `NUMERIC` keyboard. It will default to `QWERTY` if not otherwise set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify the keyboard layout by changing the keyboard configuration's `keyboardLayout`. For example, you can set a `NUMERIC` keyboard. It will default to `QWERTY` if not otherwise set.

!!! NOTE
The numeric keyboard layout is only available on RPC 7.1+. See the section [Checking Keyboard Capabilities](#checking-keyboard-capabilities) to determine if this layout is available.

```

![Numeric Keyboard](assets/keyboard_numeric.png)
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.NUMERIC);

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
#### Input Masking (RPC 7.1+)
You can modify the keyboard to mask the entered characters by changing the keyboard configuration's `maskInputCharacters`. 
![Numeric Keyboard](assets/keyboard_numeric_masked.png)
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.NUMERIC)
        .setMaskInputCharacters(KeyboardInputMask.ENABLE_INPUT_KEY_MASK);

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
#### Custom Keys (RPC 7.1+)

> Each keyboard layout has a number of keys that can be customized to your app's needs. For example, you could set two of the customizable keys in `QWERTY` layout to be "!" and "?" as seen in the image below. The available number and location of these custom keys is determined by the connected head unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each keyboard layout has a number of keys that can be customized to your app's needs. For example, you could set two of the customizable keys in `QWERTY` layout to be "!" and "?" as seen in the image below. The available number and location of these custom keys is determined by the connected head unit. See the section [Checking Keyboard Capabilities](#checking-keyboard-capabilities) to determine how many custom keys are available for any given layout.
```

![Custom Keys](assets/keyboard_querty_custom_keys.png)
!@

@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java
KeyboardProperties keyboardConfiguration = new KeyboardProperties()
        .setKeyboardLayout(KeyboardLayout.QWERTY)
        .setCustomKeys(Arrays.asList("!", "?"));

sdlManager.getScreenManager().setKeyboardConfiguration(keyboardConfiguration);
```
!@

@![iOS]
todo add iOS implementation 
!@

> 
> #### Single-Use Keyboard Configuration
> @![android, javaSE, javaEE]
> If you want to change the keyboard configuration for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead pass the `KeyboardProperties` to `presentKeyboard()` which was discussed in the `Presenting a Keyboard` section.
> !@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> @![iOS]
> If you want to change the keyboard properties for only one keyboard session and keep the default global keyboard properties unchanged, you can instead return a `SDLKeyboardProperties` in the `SDLKeyboardDelegate.customKeyboardConfiguration` method.
> !@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

@![iOS, android, javaSE, javaEE]
### Checking Keyboard Capabilities (RPC v7.1+)

> Each head unit can support different set of keyboard layouts and each layout can support different number of custom keys. Also, some head unit may not support masking input. If you want to know which keyboard features are supported on the connected head unit, you can check the `KeyboardCapabilities`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each head unit may support different keyboard layouts and each layout can support a different number of custom keys. Head units may not support masking input. If you want to know which keyboard features are supported on the connected head unit, you can check the `KeyboardCapabilities`:
```

!@
@![android, javaSE, javaEE]
```java

> sdlManager.getSystemCapabilityManager().getCapability(SystemCapabilityType.DISPLAYS, new OnSystemCapabilityListener() {

Reviewer: I believe you were going to change this to just pull the `SystemCapabilityManager` default main window capability keyboard capabilities.
